% YuGiOh Game

Welcome to a MUD for playing Yu-Gi-Oh.

## Introduction

Yu-gi-oh is a card game where two players compete against each other in
a strategic duel. Each duelist uses a unique deck with between 40 and 60
cards to deplete their opponent's 8,000 life points. the first duelist
to hit 0 will lose. strategies to deplete your opponent's life points
are entirely up to you. The Yu-gi-oh Mud includes over 12,000 cards and
is being updated regularly to include new cards. These cards include
monster cards with unique effects, spell cards to boost your stratigy or
hinder your opponent, and trap cards to sneakily give you the advantage
in your duel. Yu-gi-oh offers simple or complex gameplay at your level
of experience. you can choose to create your own deck or play with over
200 public decks available. you can even copy a public deck and make it
yours and choose to improve it as you gain knowledge and experience.
Have no experience with yu-gi-oh or never heard of the game? no problem!
often there are players online that are happy to assist you with
questions. now, it's time to Duel!

## Connecting

Which ever Mud client you use you can find the Yu-gi-oh Mud at
allinaccess.com port 1234.

Or, [connect with the web client](webclient/).

The most popular way of playing is through the Mush Client which
includes a sound pack. This is the recommended way to play to get the
full experience.

[Download the preconfigured MUSHclient and
soundpack](https://github.com/Timtam/yugioh-soundpack/archive/master.zip),
which includes everything you need to get started.

you can find a Key command list and guide below.

*note: it is recommended to either use Google or Youtube to learn basic
rules of game play or how to play the game. the guides below are only
for help in the Mud and not help to learn the game of yu-gi-oh. Google
and Youtube have many helpful videos or descriptions on how to play the
game. learning basic game play is recommended in order to limit
confusion.
