::: WordSection1
We will also touch on how to connect to the game, where you may find a
mush client pack, or packs depending on whose pack you prefer, and
information regarding how to find the VIP pack for those who dislike or
will not use mush client.

In order to connect to the game using mush client specific just unzip
your pack, and find the mush client executable/application and press
enter. That will bring you directly to the game. Using VIP Mud client.
There are a few more steps involved in the setup of vip and its
association with the sound packs. Open your vip, tab down to edit, and
proceed to add a profile. The first box is the box where your name goes,
but please remember to erase the junk character found in the first box,
inset name.  Now tab down to world, host, and port. Inside world yugioh,
inside host: allinaccess.com and inside port 1234.

Now since you have connected to the game using whichever client you
prefer, now you can create a deck for your account.

There is another option however and this is to use a public deck. In
order to find the public list, help public decks. In order to load said
deck, deck load public/whatever. Note that the whatever there is where
the actual deck name shall be.

In ordert to go in and create a deck, deck new deck name, for example,
deck new test. Then you do deck edit test, and that brings you into the
deck edit manager. Inside the deck edit manager, you have several
options. You can press d to go down, u to move up in the list, / key to
do a search. So /samurai. This will list all the cards with the key term
samurai.

R is for removing a card, you can also type r22 after press l for the
list.

You can press ? to go up to the previous search.  Know that in order to
use the ? Command, you have to have made a search before.

A deck must have a minimum of 40 cards. This does not include the extra
deck cards.

So now you created a deck, or are using a public deck. Let's load up
that deck and challenge someone to a duel.

So deck load deck name, or deck load public/whatever

In order to start that duel, duel person. So duel tsp.

Tsp will either acknowledge that challenge or duel you. A duel will
start, and you will be given a default of 5 cards in your hand

The game chooses whoever will do the first move. Let's say that first
move is yours. You have 5 cards, info h1, info h2, info h3 and so on
tell you specific information regarding that card and its specialties.

You can also type h1, I to get info on that card, z to return to the
main menu for your hand, c in some cases special summons a monster, v
activates that monster on the field, also a notable command for both
spell, and trap cards.

So let's say you summon beaver warrior in face up attack position. When
it is summoned to the field, the game announces the level, the attack
points, and the defense points.

For any monster whose level is higher than 4, you usually need a tribute
to summon it. For 5, 6 you need 1 tribute, for 7 8 and 9, its usually 2,
and so on 3 for 10  11 12. That 10 11 12 may not always be the case for
some cards but it generally follows that rule.

You can end your turn now, and let the second player take his/her turn.
Based on what cards the opponent uses, the beaver warrior you brought to
the field will either stay, or die.

A few battle commands I did not cover. B is used for battling, a for
attack, and so on.

The menu also has an activate there.

Due to the cards on the field, this tutorial suggests looking up the
cards info. So if it's in position m1, info m1 to see if you want to
activate said card.

 Toni has a classical mush pack, Smoovgunner has a voice clip pack, and
Zironion and Hunter are developing a VIP pack.

Contact the 4 developers mentioned above for more information.

 

 
:::
